# udev 

- The Linux subsystem for managing device events
- Udev is a crucial part of the Linux system responsible for managing device events, essentially recognizing when you connect or disconnect hardware to your computer. In simpler terms, it's the underlying code that detects various devices like network cards, external hard drives (including USB thumb drives), mice, keyboards, joysticks, gamepads, DVD-ROM drives, and more. This functionality makes Udev a valuable utility, and it's accessible enough for a regular user to manually script actions based on specific events, such as automating tasks when a particular hard drive is plugged in.
- udev is a userspace system that enables the operating system administrator to register userspace handlers for events. The events received by udev's daemon are mainly generated by the (Linux) kernel in response to physical events relating to peripheral devices. As such, udev's main purpose is to act upon peripheral detection and hot-plugging, including actions that return control to the kernel, e.g., loading kernel modules or device firmware. Another component of this detection is adjusting the permissions of the device to be accessible to non-root users and groups.
- As the successor of devfsd and hotplug, udev also manages device nodes in the /dev directory by adding, symlinking and renaming them. udev replaces the functionality of both hotplug and hwdetect.
- udev is part of systemd and thus installed by default. See systemd-udevd.service(8) for information.





# References
1. <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/udev>
2. <https://opensource.com/article/18/11/udev>